Guide for AWS (#45)
swift-server/guides: docs/aws.md

> # Deploying to AWS on Amazon Linux 2

Reviewer: is this file here by mistake?

Launch instance. Click on "Launch", and select a key pair that you will use to connect to the instance. If you already have a keypair that you have used previously, you can reuse it here by selecting "Choose an existing key pair". Otherwise you can create a keypair now by selecting "Create a new key pair".

![Launch instance](../images/aws/launch-7.png)

Wait for instance to launch. When it is ready it will show as "running" under "Instance state", and "2/2 checks pass" under "Status Checks". Click on the instance to view the details on the bottom pane of the window, and look for the "IPv4 Public IP".

![Wait for instance launch and view details](../images/aws/ec2-list.png)

Connect to instance. Using the keypair that you used or created in the launch step and the IP in the previous step, run ssh. Be sure to use the `-A` option with ssh so that in a future step we will be able to use the same key to connect to a second instance.

![Connect to instance](../images/aws/ssh-0.png)

We have two options to compile the binary: either directly on the instance or using Docker. We will go through both options here.

## Compile on instance

> 

Reviewer: I think we can add a sentence here to highlight the two options to compile on the instance:
1. download and install the Swift toolchain 
2. use docker 

and then point / link to the relevant subsections

Reviewer 2: +1 on that; it feels a bit weird now as we jump right into the downloading.

Maybe add this:

```suggestion
There are two alternative ways to compile code on the instance, either by:

- [downloading and using the toolchain directly on the instance](#compile-using-a-downloaded-toolchain),
- or by [using docker, and compiling inside a docker container](#compile-with-docker)

### Compile using a downloaded toolchain
```

Feel free to use this or use your own wording, then we're LGTM!

```
SwiftToolchainUrl="https://swift.org/builds/swift-5.4.1-release/amazonlinux2/swift-5.4.1-RELEASE/swift-5.4.1-RELEASE-amazonlinux2.tar.gz"
sudo yum install ruby binutils gcc git glibc-static gzip libbsd libcurl libedit libicu libsqlite libstdc++-static libuuid libxml2 tar tzdata ruby -y
cd $(mktemp -d)
wget ${SwiftToolchainUrl} -O swift.tar.gz
gunzip < swift.tar.gz | sudo tar -C / -xv --strip-components 1
```

Finally, check that Swift is correctly installed by running the Swift REPL: `swift`.

![Invoke REPL](../images/aws/repl.png)

Let's now download and build an test application. We will use the `--static-swift-stdlib` option so that it can be deployed to a different server without the Swift toolchain installed. These examples will deploy SwiftNIO's [example HTTP server](https://github.com/apple/swift-nio/tree/master/Sources/NIOHTTP1Server), but you can test with your own project.

```
git clone https://github.com/apple/swift-nio.git
cd swift-nio
swift build -v --static-swift-stdlib -c release
```

> ## Compile on Docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Compile with Docker
```

This guide describes how to launch an AWS instance running Amazon Linux 2 and configure it to run Swift. The approach taken here is a step by step approach through the console. This is a great way to learn, but for a more mature approach we recommend using Infrastructure as Code tools such as AWS Cloudformation, and the instances are created and managed through automated tools such as Autoscaling Groups. For one approach using those tools see this blog article: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/continuous-delivery-with-server-side-swift-on-amazon-linux-2/

## Launch AWS Instance

Use the Service menu to select the EC2 service.

![Select EC2 service](../images/aws/services.png)

Click on "Instances" in the "Instances" menu

![Select Instances](../images/aws/ec2.png)

Click on "Launch Instance", either on the top of the screen, or if this is the first instance you have created in the region, in the main section of the screen.

![Launch instance](../images/aws/launch-0.png)

Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI). In this case the guide is assuming that we will be using Amazon Linux 2, so select that AMI type.

![Choose AMI](../images/aws/launch-1.png)

> Choose an instance type. Larger instances types will have more memory and CPU, but will be more expensive. To experiment is it frugal to choose a smaller instance type. In this case I have a `t2.micro` instance type selected.

Reviewer 3: `frugal` seems like a very Amazon word. I know what you mean but it might be less obvious for someone else. Maybe something like-

```suggestion
Choose an instance type. Larger instances types will have more memory and CPU, but will be more expensive. A smaller instance type will be sufficient to experiment. In this case I have a `t2.micro` instance type selected.
```

![Wait for instance launch and view details](../images/aws/ec2-list.png)

Connect to instance. Using the keypair that you used or created in the launch step and the IP in the previous step, run ssh. Be sure to use the `-A` option with ssh so that in a future step we will be able to use the same key to connect to a second instance.

![Connect to instance](../images/aws/ssh-0.png)

Run the following command in the SSH terminal. Note that there may be a more up to date version of the swift toolchain. Check https://swift.org/download/#releases for the latest available toolchain url for Amazon Linux 2.

```
SwiftToolchainUrl="https://swift.org/builds/swift-5.4.1-release/amazonlinux2/swift-5.4.1-RELEASE/swift-5.4.1-RELEASE-amazonlinux2.tar.gz"
sudo yum install ruby binutils gcc git glibc-static gzip libbsd libcurl libedit libicu libsqlite libstdc++-static libuuid libxml2 tar tzdata ruby -y
cd $(mktemp -d)
wget ${SwiftToolchainUrl} -O swift.tar.gz
gunzip < swift.tar.gz | sudo tar -C / -xv --strip-components 1
```

Finally, check that Swift is correctly installed by running the Swift REPL: `swift`.

> ![Invoke REPL](../images/aws/repl.png)

Reviewer: would it be easier to do the build stage in Docker? instead of downloading and installing the toolchain, one could build in docker on their development machine (or an EC2 instance for development/build/CI purposes), then scp to the runtime EC2 instance.

Author: 🤷‍♂️  Both seem equally easy/hard to me. If you have a strong preference I can update it.

Reviewer: @swift-server/sswg wdyt?

Reviewer 2: dockering it up may be simpler for people to follow 👍 
A bit easier to point people at docker images than tell them what specific things to install every time.

Reviewer 4: I’d just add another point of view - one might have a working ec2 setup but doesn’t use docker, which would make adding one more technology more complicated (my actual use case :-). That being said, either works of course, but just wanted to point out it adds another dimension of complexity.

Reviewer 2: We could show both I guess? It’s not much more text to maintain tbh

Reviewer 5: May view is that we should stick to compiling on the instance. Not everyone wants Docker and teaching people how to set up swift on a Linux box (even if it just points to the box) is not a bad thing.

IMO Docker should be a separate part of the guide and show the full lifecycle - compile container, push to ECR and deploy on to ECS/EKS etc

Reviewer 3: This particular guide seems focused on stepping through someone's first experimentation with Server Side Swift. Like Tim said, there is value in a very beginner level guide and local or cross-instance compilation feels like it would just be introducing a complication earlier than needed.

Author: It seems like there's a couple of different opinions :-) i.e. either reduce the moving parts by compiling on the instance, or use docker to simplify the build command. I'm happy to go in either direction, just let me know :-)

Reviewer 4: Friendly ping @tomerd ?

Reviewer: how about we document both? this way folks that are familiar with Docker can go down that path, and others can install the toolchain on the host. hopefully we will have RPMs soon so the latter will be even simpler

Author: Yeah, I'm happy to do that. Give me a few days to wrap up another task on my plate and I'll get right on it.

Author: Just added a Docker option - I hope that's helpful

Reviewer 2: Thanks a lot, that's great 👍

Let's now download and build an test application. We will use the `--static-swift-stdlib` option so that it can be deployed to a different server without the Swift toolchain installed.

```
git clone https://github.com/apple/swift-nio.git
cd swift-nio

> swift build -v --static-swift-stdlib -c release

Reviewer: since swift-nio is a library this may be confusing. wither we pick another example, or at least lets change the command and call out explicitly that are we building the example  NIOHTTP1Server target which ships with swift-nio to make things clearer to a reader that is not familiar with those details

Author: I used swift-nio to parallel what was used in the ubuntu guide. I added a line of description (also matching the ubuntu guide) in the latest push
